In the current lesson, we will add an effect on hitting our character to the user interface.
Let's do this using the image element. Let's add an image to the widget tree. Let's call it DamageImage.
Stretch the image to fill the entire viewport. It is located in our hierarchy in the very first
layer, that is, all other custom elements will be on top of this image.
Set some red color in property color and opacity and set alpha to 0.
Add animation. We worked with UI animations when creating the spectator widget.
We call the animation damage animation. Add our picture and add color and opacity track.
Let's animate the ripple. I'll set the keyframe at 0.25 seconds and set the alpha to one.
A for 0.5 seconds, set the alpha to zero, that is, we get such a blinking animation. For the test, I
added a picture with blood splashes, I will not walk this picture into the repository so as not to violate
copyright, but you can always find something similar on the Internet. So, let's go back to the widget
and set the blood image in the property Image. For us, this animation will play only once
upon hit, but you can also expand this concept and gradually completely fill the viewport
with blood, depending on the number of lives. We finish with you in blueprints, in C ++ we
will need to implement our own event, according to which we can play this animation in the widget.
We also pull out the damage animation variable and call the play animation function. In a few minutes, we will add
our own event and all we have to do is connect it to this play animation node.
In our widget, we can subscribe to the OnHealthChanged health component delegate and, thanks to this, we
will understand that the character's health has changed. We will subscribe to the delegate in the Initialize function.
We have already considered it in the blueprints, when we made the spectator widget, and we also need
the OnHealthChanged function, with which we will bind to the health component delegate. We create a body for each
function. Initialize returns boolean, so we can immediately write return Super :: Initialize ();
In the body of the Initialize function, we need to get the health component. We already have a similar code, we just copy it.
If the pointer is not 0, then we add bind.
Now we are subscribed to the change in the character's health and we need to somehow notify the blueprint about the occurrence of this event.
In the UE, there is such a possibility. Let's say our event will be called OnTakeDamage.
Let's see what specifier we need to specify in order for this event to be visible in blueprints.
We create the OnTakeDamage function.
Copy the UFUNCTION macro from above, remove the BlueprintCallable and write the BlueprintImplementableEvent.
This UFUNCTION macro specifier will allow you to create an event in the blueprint based on this function.
Please note that there is no need to create a body for this function in the .cpp file. We launch UE.
We return to the widget on the event graph and find OnTakeDamage in the search, and when this
event arrives in the blueprint, we start our animation. We start the game. The first bug appeared immediately at the start.
We run into the sphere, it also works somehow strange: when auto heal occurs, this effect also appears,
plus if we are in the sphere then the effect is not played. Let's start with the second bug.
Our damage comes continuously when we are in the sphere, and each time we start the animation on a new one.
We can check whether the animation is already playing or not. The widget class has a special function
called IsAnimationPlaying. If the animation is in progress, then we will not launch our PlayAnimation node.
Let's check. We run in the sphere. Now the effect will be played again only after
the previous animation has finished playing . We've dealt with the first bug. The second bug is related to auto heal.
We have subscribed to the OnHealthChanged event. This event occurs in any case of
health changes , regardless of whether it decreases or increases. Let's fix it up.
Open the health component. The delegate is called in our SetHealth function, and we use SetHealth
when doing damage, and when taking a pickup, and when auto heal. That is, in any case, changes in
health. There are two ways to remedy this situation. It is possible to create an additional delegate that
will broadcast only when our character is damaged. Or the second option: add a
special HealthDelta parameter to the OnHealthChanged delegate, which will indicate the amount of
health change . I like the second option better. Let's implement it. To do this, create
an additional local variable in SetHealth . We name it NextHealth and set clamp to it.
We also create a second variable called HealthDelta.
In this variable, we write the difference between the next health value and the current one, that is, subtract the current value from NexHealth.
We have allocated the variable, so we can assign the value to the NextHealth variable in health.
Let's change the signature of our delegate.
The delegate now has two parameters. Therefore, we change the macro to TwoParams.
Add a second argument to the macro, which will also be of the float type. Go to the header file of the widget.
We change the signature OnHealthChanged. It has changed - a second HealthDelta parameter has been added.
We go to the .cpp file, also change the function signature. Now we can check the value of this HealthDelta variable.
If its value is less than 0, that is, damage was done to our character, then only then will we call
event OnTakeDamage, otherwise we simply ignore this notification.
Next, we need to correct the signature of the character class.
We also replace the OnHealthChanged signature and add HealthDelta in the .cpp file.
And we have a call to the OnHealthChanged function on the BeginPlay. Here you can pass 0,
or also call the GetHealth function of the health component, that is, pass 100.
It absolutely does not matter. Let's check. We run in the sphere
And in the case of auto heal, the animation is not played.
This is how we fixed the second bug.
I will delete this image, as I said at the very beginning of the lesson.
Let's just keep the color red, which will look pretty good overall.
We launch.
And a flash of red is played. One more thing, let's set the alpha
at the peak of the animation not to one, but to some value of 0.6, for example, so
that our viewport is visible in any case. Everything works. This concludes this lesson.